1st CSV Extension (#208)
Vantiq/vantiq-extension-sources: CSVSource/README.md

# Overview

The following documentation outlines how to incorporate a CSV Source as part of your project. This allows a user to construct applications that detect creation of csv files in pre defined folder and upload the file content as events to vantiq. the extension source enable control on the names of the idfferent attribute base on the order in the csv file and change the name or delete after procsiing the file. 
The extension source can handle multiple files parralel , this can be controled by parameters in the config section . 

In order to incorporate this Extension Source, you will need to create the Source in the VANTIQ Modelo IDE. The documentation has been split into two parts, [Setting Up Your Machine](#machine) and [Setting Up Your VANTIQ Modelo IDE](#vantiq).

# Prerequisites <a name="pre" id="pre"></a>

**IMPORTANT:** Read the [Testing](#testing) section before building this project.

> An understanding of the VANTIQ Extension Source SDK is assumed. Please read the [Extension Source README.md](../README.md) for more 

Author: changed , moved to setting up vantiq

information.

The user must [define the CSV Source implementation](../README.md#-defining-a-typeimplementation) in the VANTIQ Modelo IDE. For an example of the definition, 
please see the [*csvImpl.json*](src/test/resources/csvImpl.json) file located in the *src/test/resources* directory.

> Additionally, an example project named *CSVExample.zip* can be found in the *src/test/resources* directory.

Author: moved to new section "Running the example"

*   **fileExtension**: Required. the  extension of the files to be processed 
*   **maxLinesInEvent**: Required. determine how many lines from the CSV file will be sent in a single message to the server. depend on the size of the lines of the CSV , set to high value might end with a memory exception. 

### Options Available for schema
Schema can be used to control the field names on the uploaded event , in no name is assigned 'FieldX' will be used as 'X' is the index of the field in the line for example field0 , field1 etc . 

those values can be used to override that default behavior for example , define the following `schema : { field2 : "address"}`

will cause the attribute of the 3rd value in each line to be called "address". 
so instead of loading event : 

`{field0:1,fiels1:true,field2:"there"}` it will upload `{field0:1,fiels1:true,address:"there"}`
this feature can save coversion processing on the server.

### Options Available for options

*   **maxActiveTasks**: Optional. The maximum number of threads running at any given point for CSV files running parralel . Must be a positive integer. Default value is 5.

> *   **maxQueuedTasks**: Optional. The maximum number of queued tasks at any given point for CSV files,overflowing that number might cause lack of data . Must be a positive integer. Default value is 10.

Author: to be honest , didn't pay attention as i copied from JDBC  the implementation , as this is my first Java projects , will be more then happy to improve it .

The extension source supports only notifications from source to vantiq , those contains the csv converted to json messages based on the schema definition given in the configuration. 

using filewatcher , when new file is created in pre configured folder , support the configurable name file pattern, the context is being build and converted to json . that json is being sent to VANTIQ as incoming event . 

when process start , based on configiration , extension can work on all files exist in the input folder which support the name file pattern , in this way , in case system is failed , it will resnt all accomulated files once it restarted again . 

In order to incorporate this Extension Source, you will need to create the Source in the VANTIQ Modelo IDE. The documentation has been split into two parts, [Setting Up Your Machine](#machine) and [Setting Up Your VANTIQ Modelo IDE](#vantiq).

# Prerequisites <a name="pre" id="pre"></a>

**IMPORTANT:** Read the [Testing](#testing) section before building this project.

An understanding of the VANTIQ Extension Source SDK is assumed. Please read the [Extension Source README.md](../README.md) for more 
information.

> The user must [define the CSV Source implementation](../README.md#-defining-a-typeimplementation) in the VANTIQ Modelo IDE. For an example of the definition, 

Author: done , full copy from JDBC , i guess a better english speaker would be better for that then myself.

> The user must [define the CSV Source implementation](../README.md#-defining-a-typeimplementation) in the VANTIQ Modelo IDE. For an example of the definition, 

Author: changed and rephrase , please verify

## Logging
To change the logging settings, edit the logging config file `<install location>/CSVSource/src/main/resources/log4j2.xml`,
which is an [Apache Log4j configuration file.](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/configuration.html). The logger 
name for each class is the class's fully qualified class name, *e.g.* "io.vantiq.extjsdk.ExtensionWebSocketClient".  

## Server Config File

The server config file is written as `property=value`, with each property on its
own line. The following is an example of a valid server.config file:
```
authToken=XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
sources=CSV1
targetServer=https://dev.vantiq.com/
```

### Vantiq Options
*   **authToken**: Required. The authentication token to connect with. These can be obtained from the namespace admin.
*   **sources**: Required. A comma separated list of the sources to which you wish to connect. Any whitespace will be
    removed when read.
*   **targetServer**: Required. The Vantiq server hosting the sources.

# Setting Up VANTIQ <a name="vantiq" id="vantiq"></a>

## Source Configuration

> To set up the Source in the VANTIQ Modelo IDE, you will need to add a Source to your project. Make sure you have properly added a Source Definition to VANTIQ. Once this is complete, you can select CSV (or whatever you named your Source Definition) as the Source Type. You will then need to fill out the Source Configuration 

Author: done ,

    {
        "csvConfig": {
        "fileFolderPath": "d:/tmp/csv",
        "filePrefix": "eje",
        "fileExtension": "csv",
        "maxLinesInEvent": 200,
        "delimiter":",",
            "schema": {
                "field0": "value",
                "field2": "flag",
                "field1": "YScale"
            }
        },
        "options": {
            "maxActiveTasks": 2,
            "maxQueuedTasks": 4,
            "processExistingFiles": true,
            "extensionAfterProcessing": "csv.done",
            "deleteAfterProcessing": false
        }
    }

### Configuration
*   **fileFolderPath**: Required. The folder in which this source will look for CSV files. 
*   **filePrefix**: Optional . The prefix of the file pattern to look for, if not set any file name will be accepted. 
*   **fileExtension**: Required. The file extension of the files to be processed 
*   **maxLinesInEvent**: Required. Determine how many lines from the CSV file will be sent in a single message to the server. Depending on the number of the lines of the CSV file, a high value might result in messages too large to process efficiently or a memory exception. 

> *   **delimiter**: the delimiter to be used when parse the CSV file

Reviewer: Need to describe what this is.  It's a regular expression that separates entries in the files being processed.  The default value is "," or whatever (should be ",").

Author: done

*   **extensionAfterProcessing**: Optional. Rename the file after it has been processed to avoid reprocessing (_e.g._ for cases where `processExistingFiles` is set to `true`).  The default value is combination of the 'fileExtension' and `done`.  For example `.csv.done` when `fileExtension` set to `.csv`.
*   **deleteAfterProcessing**: Optional. Delete the processed file only if processed successfully to avoid reprocessing in cases where `processExistingFiles` is set to `true`. Default value is `false`

## Messages from the Source

Messages that are sent to the source as Notifications are JSON objects in the following format:
```
{
   {"field0":columnValue, "field1":columnValue, etc..}
}
```
The data is formatted as a HashMap which represents a row of data. Each map is a series of key-value pairs with the keys 
being the column name and the values being the column value. If multiple rows of data are returned by the notification, the number iof max events is determined by the `maxLinesInEvent` 

## Event structure

> Each event consists on the follwoing structure :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each event consists on the following structure :
```

> * **file** : the source file from where the data was extracted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **file** : the source file from which the data was extracted
```

> * **segment** : number of CSV lines on the current segment 

Reviewer: by _segment_, I assume you mean the number of lines processed to create the segment contained in the current event.  Specifically, in the `lines` property?  It would be good to pick a single set of terminology to use.  Maybe `filename`, `lineCount`, and `segment`.  By the time they get here, they aren't "lines" anymore -- the data is an array of JSON objects whose content was extracted from some lines in the file.

Author: i have update the meaning of segment . no points to send number of line in the message as it exist in the array .

> * **lines** : the json buffer itself . 

Reviewer: An array of JSON objects (or, really, an array of Objects (since you're really speaking of VAIL at this point)) containing data extracted from lines in the named file.

Author: the knowledge that the information comes from a csv file , is still exist in the Vantiq extension side .for example : i am sending the file name because it might contains (legacy systems tend to do that )  some meaningful information like the source or the creation time of the file , so it is not transparent the object are actually the  lines  from a file.

# Overview

> This document outlines how to incorporate a CSV Source into your project. The CSV source allows a user to construct applications that detect creation of CSV files in pre-defined folder and upload the file content as events to VANTIQ. The extension source enables control on the names of the different attribute based on the order in the CSV file, and change the name or delete after processing the file. 

Author: done

The extension source can handle multiple files parallel;  this is controlled by parameters in the config section . 

> The extension source supports only notifications from source to vantiq , those contains the csv converted to json messages based on the schema definition given in the configuration. 

Author: done

using filewatcher , when new file is created in pre configured folder , support the configurable name file pattern, the context is being build and converted to json . that json is being sent to VANTIQ as incoming event . 

> when process start , based on configiration , extension can work on all files exist in the input folder which support the name file pattern , in this way , in case system is failed , it will resnt all accomulated files once it restarted again . 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the process starts, based on configuration, extension can work on all files exist in the input folder which support the name file pattern. In this way, in cases where the extension is not running during file updates, it will resend all accumulated files once it restarted. 
```

Author: done

> In order to incorporate this Extension Source, you will need to create the Source in the VANTIQ Modelo IDE. The documentation has been split into two parts, [Setting Up Your Machine](#machine) and [Setting Up Your VANTIQ Modelo IDE](#vantiq).

Author: done

## Messages from the Source

Messages that are sent to the source as Notifications are JSON objects in the following format:
```
{
   "file": "d:/tmp/csv/ejesmall.csv",
   "segment": 39,
   "lines": [
      {
         "flag": "1",
         "value": "109411211",
         "YScale": "13.8000"
      },
      {
         "flag": "1",
         "value": "109415211",
         "YScale": "112.3507"
      },
      {
         "flag": "1",
         "value": "109416211",
         "YScale": "-111.5000"
      },
      {
         "flag": "1",
         "value": "109432211",
         "YScale": "1.0440"
      },
      {
         "flag": "1",
         "value": "109433211",
         "YScale": "-0.3000"
      }
   ]
}
```
number for lines will not exeeded the value determined by the `maxLinesInEvent` configuratipon parameter .

## Event structure
Each event consists on the follwoing structure :

* **file** : the source file from where the data was extracted
* **segment** : number of CSV lines on the current segment 
* **lines** : the json buffer itself . where the key values are used from the schema definition . 

> 

Reviewer: Here, there should be an example (which should be added to the app in your CSVExample.zip) that shows how to process an incoming event.  it doesn't need to be anything fancy, just showing that the message from the source comes in, that the values can be seen, and that the data can be dealt with -- stuffed into a database record, logged, whatever.  This is the only documentation there is -- if you add the structure here, customers can download & try things without having to invent from scratch.

Author: done .

## Error Messages

parsing CSV errors originating from the source will always have the code be the fully-qualified class name with a small descriptor 
attached, and the message will include the exception causing it and the request that spawned it.

The exception thrown by the CSV Class will always be a VantiqCSVException. This is a wrapper around the traditional Exception, and contains the Error Message, and Error Code from the original Exception.

## Testing <a name="testing" id="testing"></a>

> In order to properly run the tests, you must add properties to your _gradle.properties_ file in the _~/.gradle_ directory. These properties include the location where to simulate the file to be sent 

Author: done

> one can control the configuration parameter for the testing by customizing gradle.properties file. The following shows what the gradle.properties file should look like:

Author: done

parsing CSV errors originating from the source will always have the code be the fully-qualified class name with a small descriptor 
attached, and the message will include the exception causing it and the request that spawned it.

The exception thrown by the CSV Class will always be a VantiqCSVException. This is a wrapper around the traditional Exception, and contains the Error Message, and Error Code from the original Exception.

## Testing <a name="testing" id="testing"></a>

In order to properly run the tests, you must add properties to your _gradle.properties_ file in the _~/.gradle_ directory. These properties include the VANTIQ server against which the tests will be run.

One can control the configuration parameter for the testing by customizing gradle.properties file. The following shows what the gradle.properties file should look like:

```
    TestVantiqServer=<yourVantiqServer>
    TestAuthToken=<yourAuthToken>
    EntFileFolderPath=<yourDesiredFolderPath>
    EntFileExtension=<yourDesiredFileExtension>
    EntFilePrefix=<yourDesiredFilePrefix>
    EntMaxLinesInEvent=<yourDesiredLinesInEvent>
    EntDelimiter=<yourDesiredDelimiter>
    EntProcessNullValue=<True|False>
```

> possible set of values might be :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Possible example values might be :
```
